	My little brother's eyes welled up with tears as we pushed the needles into our 
arms together. He'd been diagnosed with type one diabetes when he was four and I was eight. He 
was so afraid of the needle that, on my mother's suggestion, I injected myself with saline 
solution at the same time he received one of his first insulin shots. Although my display had 
nothing to do with my brother's physical treatment, seeing me unafraid of the shot seemed to 
give him courage. What my brother taught me that day is that the task of medicine is not only to 
cure the body but also to soothe the mind. I repeated the shot for the next few days until my 
brother overcame his hesitation and his fear. Later, I realized that there is a type of care that 
doesn't involve drugs or technology. To really help my brother, I had to bolster his confidence in 
his ability to cope with his illness.
I limped into Dr. Meineke's office after a bad fall playing volleyball. What surprised me 
initially was his slow and patient entrance into the room, even though I knew there were more 
than fifteen patients waiting to see him after me. He went about finding exactly what was wrong 
by trying to make my leg hurt. At every point he offered explanations for both his questions and 
his techniques in a tone that held no hint of condescension. Although my visit with Dr. Meineke 
lasted for a total of ten minutes, I left with calm assurance that with treatment I would get better. 
As an internist, Dr. Meineke uses his command of modern medical knowledge to exude a sense 
of comfort to his patients. However, what always makes the most lasting impression upon me is 
how his bedside manner lets me feel like an active participant in my own healthcare. Everyone 
should have the opportunity to receive medical care, similar to Dr. Meineke's, which is both 
comforting and personally engaging.
	The hospital is a place where people face life and death every day and where comfort 
involves grappling with the deep questions and their own beliefs. A doctor should hold a 
relationship with his patients built upon trust, and should be unafraid to confront any 
philosophical or ethical discussions. I have learned several things about communication during 
my college experience that I hope will help me to earn such trust. In the Model United Nations, I 
have learned that active listening is the most important part of good communication; no one in 
committee would listen to my position if I did not listen to his or her own. As a student of 
Philosophy, I have found that absolute answers to deep questions will always be elusive. The 
best help one can give to a patient is to give a patient in emotional crises is to listen and help 
them come to terms with their belief by sharing what personal experience has taught. 
Communication skills are essential for making the deep connections with patients that I believe 
are just as important as physical care.
I saw the printed candle taped to the door as I entered the room in the obstetrics ward of 
the hospital and my breath caught in my throat. The little white candle, so familiar to me in the 
context of peaceful Sabbath dinners, in the hospital meant that the room's occupant had lost her 
child. I paused and contemplated my demeanor. Should I try to be comforting, or should I just 
give her the meal that I'd been sent to bring and leave? I entered a room filled with family, 
quietly and bleakly comforting both the woman in the bed and each other. However, the 
somberness of her family only served to contrast her own peaceful expression. Where I expected 
a woman in the midst of grief that I could hardly imagine, I confronted a woman that while 
clearly sorrowful, was also calm and dignified. I resolved to mirror her composure as I set the 
meal down on her table. She managed a flicker of a smile and thanked me in a soft voice. Her 
poise in the face of such loss inspires me to this day to look for a similar emotional strength in 
myself, and a way to pass that strength on to others. Of all the patient contact I had at the hospital 
that summer, those minutes with that woman touched me the deepest. 
	The woman at the hospital was my teacher: she taught me that people have a great 
capacity for sadness, and an even greater capacity for strength in the face of crises. I consider 
myself a lifelong student and from my experience I know that there is a great deal to be learned 
from interacting with patients. Since I've realized the great value of lessons from meaningful 
patient contact, I am volunteering in the emergency department at Provena Covenant hospital 
twice a week. I hope that by continuously learning through my experiences and through the 
experiences of those I care for, I will someday be able to give something back. The world needs 
good doctors who not only provide care for the bodies but also the hearts and minds of their 
patients. I intend to pursue this goal for a lifetime.
 
 
 
 
Max: 5300 characters
