
7:15 And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for
thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall
not leave any of it until the morning.

7:16 But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary
offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his
sacrifice: and on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten:
7:17 But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day
shall be burnt with fire.

7:18 And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings
be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither
shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an
abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.

7:19 And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten;
it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean
shall eat thereof.

7:20 But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace
offerings, that pertain unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon
him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:21 Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the
uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean
thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which
pertain unto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his
people.

7:22 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:23 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of fat, of ox, or
of sheep, or of goat.

7:24 And the fat of the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of
that which is torn with beasts, may be used in any other use: but ye
shall in no wise eat of it.

7:25 For whosoever eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an
offering made by fire unto the LORD, even the soul that eateth it
shall be cut off from his people.

7:26 Moreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl
or of beast, in any of your dwellings.

7:27 Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, even that
soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:28 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:29 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, He that offereth the sacrifice of his
peace offerings unto the LORD shall bring his oblation unto the LORD
of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.

7:30 His own hands shall bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire,
the fat with the breast, it shall he bring, that the breast may be
waved for a wave offering before the LORD.

7:31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast
shall be Aaron's and his sons'.

7:32 And the right shoulder shall ye give unto the priest for an heave
offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.

7:33 He among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace
offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part.

7:34 For the wave breast and the heave shoulder have I taken of the
children of Israel from off the sacrifices of their peace offerings,
and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons by a
statute for ever from among the children of Israel.

7:35 This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the
anointing of his sons, out of the offerings of the LORD made by fire,
in the day when he presented them to minister unto the LORD in the
priest's office; 7:36 Which the LORD commanded to be given them of the
children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them, by a statute for
ever throughout their generations.

7:37 This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meat offering, and
of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the
consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings; 7:38 Which
the LORD commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded
the children of Israel to offer their oblations unto the LORD, in the
wilderness of Sinai.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:2 Take Aaron and his sons
with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a bullock for
the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread; 8:3
And gather thou all the congregation together unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.

8:4 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was
gathered together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

8:5 And Moses said unto the congregation, This is the thing which the
LORD commanded to be done.

8:6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.

8:7 And he put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and
clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded
him with the curious girdle of the ephod, and bound it unto him
therewith.

8:8 And he put the breastplate upon him: also he put in the
breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.
