 former top Justice Department aide testified on Wednesday that she had “crossed the line” in considering the political beliefs of applicants for nonpartisan legal jobs and suggested that earlier testimony by Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales and another top official about the dismissals of federal prosecutors may have been flawed.

Monica M. Goodling, the former Justice official, told a House panel that she regretted favoring applicants with Republican credentials for lower level prosecutor jobs or prestigious postings at Justice headquarters, actions that could violate federal employment laws.

“I may have gone too far in asking political questions of applicants for career positions and I may have taken inappropriate political considerations into account,” Ms. Goodling said. “And I regret those mistakes.”

But she said that even though she was the Justice Department’s liaison to the White House, she did not play a significant role in the dismissals and never discussed them with Karl Rove, the president’s chief political adviser or Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel.

“I did not hold the keys to the kingdom as some have suggested,” Ms. Goodling said to the House Judiciary Committee.

Ms. Goodling testified under a grant of immunity from prosecution, which the Judiciary panel issued after two months of wrangling, because her lawyers said she would refuse to answer questions on grounds that to do so would violate her constitutional right against self-incrimination.

With a crush of cameras whirring in the hearing room, and one lawmaker snapping pictures with his cellphone, the 33-year-old Ms. Goodling took her seat in the witness chair for five hours of testimony that brought Congress little closer to understanding the administration’s motives for the dismissals.

“There remains basic unanswered questions about how and why the termination list was created, how it was compiled, how it was revised and how it was finalized,” Representative John Conyers Jr., the Michigan Democrat who serves as the committee chairman, said at the close of the hearing.

Sitting alone at the witness table wearing a navy blue suit, her hands folded in her lap, Ms. Goodling’s soft-spoken, careful and often deferential answers seemed to clash with descriptions of her as an abrasive conservative at the Justice Department.

Ms. Goodling, a lawyer, arrived there in 2002 after working for the Republican National Committee as an opposition researcher, but with no experience as a prosecutor. She moved up rapidly from a job as a junior aide in the press office to the attorney general’s staff with authority over hiring and promotions throughout the department.

Her dedication was valued by some political appointees allied with the Bush White House. But some lawyers in the civil service ranks reviled her as an ideologically driven aide who circumvented experienced prosecutors to carry out the administration’s political agenda.

Ms. Goodling appeared to contradict Mr. Gonzales’s testimony to the committee this month in which he said he had not spoken to his senior aides since the firings “to protect the integrity of this investigation.”

During a meeting in March before she resigned, Ms. Goodling said, Mr. Gonzales asked her questions that left her uncomfortable. She thought he might be trying to compare recollections, so their stories would be consistent if they were questioned about their actions, she said. “I just thought maybe we shouldn’t have that conversation,” she said.

Brian J. Roehrkasse, a Justice Department spokesman, said in a statement that Mr. Gonzales “has never attempted to influence or shape the testimony or public statements of any witness in this matter, including Ms. Goodling. The statements made by the attorney general during this meeting were intended only to comfort her in a very difficult period.”

Ms. Goodling also accused Paul J. McNulty, the outgoing deputy attorney general, of misleading Congress when he testified on Feb. 6 to a Senate panel. Specifically, she said Mr. McNulty knew more details about the White House involvement in the firings than he acknowledged in his testimony.

“I believe he was not fully candid,” she said.

Later, Mr. McNulty sharply denied her assertions. “I testified truthfully at the Feb. 6, 2007, hearing based on what I knew at that time,” he said in a statement. “Ms. Goodling’s characterization of my testimony is wrong and not supported by the extensive record of documents and testimony already provided to Congress.”

To show support for the beleaguered Mr. Gonzales, Republican lawmakers embraced Ms. Goodling on Wednesday as a sympathetic witness. Several praised her testimony and said it proved that the investigation into the dismissals led by Democrats was not justified.

“It seems to me that with this fishing expedition there ain’t no fish in the water, and we’ve spent an awful lot of time and an awful lot of money finding that out,” said Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin.

Ms. Goodling acknowledged repeatedly that she had improperly sought to gauge the political leanings of applicants when she reviewed résumés for nonpartisan jobs or promotions, including posts as assistant United States attorneys and immigration judges or for temporary assignments at Justice headquarters.

She said she had done Google or Nexis searches on job candidates or searched their names on campaign-finance databases to see if they might have given money to Republican or Democratic candidates. She also pressed applicants’ references, at times, to ferret out the political background of the job candidates they were endorsing.

“There were times I crossed the line probably in my reference calls” by asking political questions, Ms. Goodling told the committee.

Political factors are routinely considered for some jobs at the Justice Department, like United States attorneys or senior posts, like the heads of the litigating divisions.

But civil service rules prohibit such questions when federal agencies are hiring or promoting staff members for career positions. Violations could be unlawful, although probably not a crime, Justice Department officials have said. Two internal investigative units have begun an inquiry into Ms. Goodling’s screening practices.

She told lawmakers that she could not be precise about how many hiring decisions were influenced by inappropriate political considerations, though at one point she said it probably involved fewer than 50 jobs.

She provided details on only one case, an applicant for a position as assistant United States attorney in the District of Columbia. She blocked the hiring of Seth Adam Meinero after determining the candidate was a Democrat. “I think that when I did look at that résumé, I made a snap judgment, and I regret it,” she said.

She was ultimately bypassed and Mr. Meinero was hired, Justice officials have said.

Ms Goodling tried to play down her role in the decisionmaking process related to the dismissals of the nine United States attorneys last year, saying her primary contribution was to compile complaints or praise about prosecutors that had been raised by others — not to recommend anyone for firing on her own.

Democrats, clearly frustrated that her appearance did not provide a window into the White House and whether it had political motivations for the firings of the prosecutors, said they would push on in their effort to answer those questions.

Congress has asked for Mr. Rove and Ms. Miers to testify, but the White House has demanded conditions that Democrats are unwilling to accept.

“The only way we can get to the full truth is if Mr. Karl Rove is sitting in the very same seat that you’re sitting in and he needs to be here, and he needs to be here posthaste,” said Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, Democrat of Texas.
